FOREST BASES.

1.) Superglue a Cork layer. 												[Peel or clipper the edges when dried.]
2.) Apply a Texture paint all over. Primary objective = hide all the Cork edges. 					[Texture paint colour, brand not important - I use AK Interactive Concrete.]
3.) Superglue small stones, big rocks and/or sand in places.								[Must use Superglue for later steps. Buy Cheap tubes.]
4.) Apply a Agrellan Earth Texture paint by Gamesworkshop in spots.							[Optional step* I only tend to do this if I have use large stones or rocks for a bigger base/unit.]
5.) Apply Static grass clumps / Skulls at this stage. Use sand to hide gaps.						[Optional step* I only do this occasionally for visual interest. Must use Superglue for later steps. Buy Cheap tubes.]

6.) Prime the entire base Black.											[I Airbrush Moltow Black or Chaos Black Rattle can multiples. Any Black, primer is fine.] 
7.) Airbrush Liquitex White from above.											[Airbrush makes it easier. However, you can just Rattle Can a White and/or drybrush a white.]

At this stage you should have a "busy" base that is uniformly prepared for painting. The following steps are very product specific but not skill intensive. You'll get the result if you follow these steps.

8.) Apply AK Interactive "Streaking Grime" to the entire base.								[The recipe changed a year ago and now has a green hue. We want this. No other product will work.]

Leave this to dry for atleast 4-8 hours. They'll look horrible at this stage but details should be present with the zenethil prep previous (Black & White)

9.) Use a Makeup Sponge to hit some of the edges and/or remove the tide marks and pooling in areas.			[You can often can avoid this step. Largely depends how rushed or heavy you applied the Grime previous]

When everything is bone dry. Wait 24 hours. The secret sauces and overgrowth / green hues will begin.

10.) Drench the base in "AK Uniform Green Filter"									[This is a mandatory product and quite niche to find. No other product will work. Cannot be skipped. Uniform Definition Filter AK 3017 Green Glaze]

I cannot emphasise enough on the word, Drench... This is a glaze used in Military Modelling so two coats and/or drenching the bases are important to react with the Grime layer and get our base green. Athonian Camoshade will work if cannot get AK 3017.

11.) Apply mixed tufts with Tweezers and Super Glue.									[Must use Superglue. If you don't use Superglue the Enamel products and the heavy Glaze useage will peel up all your sand, rocks etc etc.]

I use a mix of Gamer's Grass products mainly. This is obviously quite an important step. You don't need a huge range but the more you have available. The better.

12.) Apply Moss (Looks very ugly) with Super Glue. It Hardens and looks horrible at this stage.				[Any Cheap Modelling Moss product. All made the same way. Tricky to do this because need to use superglue]	

13.) Apply AK Uniform Green Filter HEAVILY on the Moss. The sponge product of "Moss" will soak up this product. You can do a second pass to get the colour right. It'll transform the Moss into a S tier product!

At this stage. Thanks to all the Tufts and Moss unfied with the Green Filter product. You'll have a good looking base at this point.

14.) Apply patchy spots of AK Slimy Grime Dark at the bases of tufts or in areas where you have Superglue misting.	[You can feather the harsh application with a Makeup sponge or a brush with alittle White Spirit]
15.) Apply Dirty Down Moss. This product is just another hue of green to break up the Ak Slimy Grime. 			[You can feather the harsh application of this product with water. Using a brush]

16.) Apply tiny dots of Cargo Dust Pigment by Abteilung 502.								[The best pigment brand and the colour I use for this project. Use very little and a old brush to feather it.]
17.) Apply AK Uniform Green Filter to colour correct to much pigment, unify the uses of both the previous Dirty Down Moss and AK Slimy Grime Dark and otherwise get the colour and "finish" in check.

18.) Lastly, to visually break up the base and create a natural look. Use a Paper Clip or a Cocktail stick and apply dots and smears of AK Interactive Liquid Water Effects all over the base.

You can use this product to make some puddles and sponge it onto the top of rocks and tufts for a "raining" / wet vibe.

If you are producing vehicles with Wheels or tracks. Stipple the Cargo Dust Pigment to the centre of the wheels. Then stipple any Gloss Varnish product on the centre of your wheels (mixing with the pigment). Lastly, stipple Liquid Water Effects on the centre of the tires.

You mix the pigment with the Water Effects directly on the bases and models for wet mud dragged up by feet or wheels. Adjusting the finish with more/less pigment.

Again. You go to far. Come in with some of the previous steps such as the Filter and/or Enamels and cover a mistake.

19.) While applying Liquid Water Effects with a Paper Clip or Cocktail stick. Apply Birch Seeds and/or Leaves. These dots of water are essentially uncured resin and are a perfect glue for your leaves. Use Tweezers.

Lastly, you can use Gloss varnish with a brush to add more dots of shine (water) in places and/or strengthen a shine. For example a puddle. You can colour shift and change your leaves with shade paints like Agrax or contrast paints like Plaguebearer Flesh. Applying more Liquid Effects to "glue" them into place.

20.) Paint the base rim Black. I use Model Colour Black by Vallejo.

21.) Brush a Matte or Ultra Matte Varnish by AK Interative or AMMO Mig onto the base rims. This will protect the model for gaming and importantly give a different finish to the realism, satin / gloss finishes on the base.